---
layout: post
title: Are English SMEs disadvantaged in accessing Green Finance? 
date: 2024-07-04 11:12:00
description: A study of UK (bank and non-bank) debt finance provision
tags: SME, access to finance, Net Zero transition, UK regions
categories: post
related_posts: false
---
Sylvia Gottschalk, Prof. Robyn Owen and Isco Coban

The UK Government aims to build a low-carbon, 'green growth' economy to meet net-zero and biodiversity goals, 
level up the economy, and establish a leading global green sector. This report examines how to finance the green 
transition for established SMEs in England. Previous research highlighted uneven access to debt finance for SMEs,
with smaller, less-resourced SMEs in remote areas facing the most challenges. In 2024 we conducted 21 qualitative 
interviews with supply-side stakeholders, including banks, non-bank debt providers, finance brokers,
and business support organizations, focusing on London and the rural South-West.

Key findings reveal a two-tier SME financing system in England: larger, well-resourced SMEs 
can access traditional bank debt finance and government green grants, while smaller, less-resourced SMEs
struggle due to insufficient internal funds, information, and external finance options. 
These smaller SMEs often turn to alternative non-bank debt finance, sometimes through brokers, 
who play a crucial but inconsistent and unregulated role. Additionally, limited and poorly targeted
grant funding, along with landlord-tenant property restrictions, hinder the green transition for many SMEs.

## Reference
Gottschalk S, R Owen and I Coban 2024. <a href="https://cusp.ac.uk/themes/finance/report-mdx-greenfin-smes/ "> Are English SMEs disadvantaged in accessing Green Finance? A study of UK (bank and non-bank) debt finance provision. </a>  London: Middlesex University. https://cusp.ac.uk/themes/finance/report-mdx-greenfin-smes/ 
